Clarify wording in spec for character groups (#618)
commonmark/commonmark-spec: spec.txt

consists of a string of characters, parsed as inline content, between an
opening sequence of 1--6 unescaped `#` characters and an optional
closing sequence of any number of unescaped `#` characters.
The opening sequence of `#` characters must be followed by spaces or tabs, or
by the end of line. The optional closing sequence of `#`s must be preceded by

> spaces or tabs space and may be followed by spaces or tabs only.  The opening

Reviewer: ```suggestion
spaces or tabs and may be followed by spaces or tabs only.  The opening
```

The opening sequence of `#` characters must be followed by spaces or tabs, or
by the end of line. The optional closing sequence of `#`s must be preceded by
spaces or tabs and may be followed by spaces or tabs only.  The opening

> `#` character may be preceded by 1-3 spaces of indentation.  The raw contents of

Reviewer 2: Sometimes you say "preceded by 1-3 spaces of indentation" and sometimes "preceded by [at most|no more than|up to] three spaces of indentation."  For what it's worth, I like the latter formulations better.  And using both raises the possibility that some readers will try to discern a distinction between them. What do you think?

Author: Nice. I don’t remember if I did that or whether it was already so. Anyway, I looked through the doc again and made the language regarding (optional) indentation more clear: https://github.com/commonmark/commonmark-spec/pull/618/commits/69abb8164061d12ea3f22f094b1ed8ee4f882c3d

Author: I picked `up to` as its short, and felt the most natural to me. Something else can also work.

An [indented code block](@) is composed of one or more
[indented chunks] separated by blank lines.
An [indented chunk](@) is a sequence of non-blank lines,

> each indented four or more spaces of indentation. The contents of the code block

Reviewer 2: "indented four or more spaces of indentation" seems a bit redundant.
Remove "of indentation"?

Reviewer 2: I'm going to move this discussion to the main thread, since it gets lost here.

of at least three consecutive backtick characters (`` ` ``) or
tildes (`~`).  (Tildes and backticks cannot be mixed.)
A [fenced code block](@)

> begins with a code fence, indented no more than three spaces of indentation.

Reviewer 2: Remove "of indentation"?  "indented...of indentation" seems redundant.

a closing [code fence] of the same type as the code block
began with (backticks or tildes), and with at least as many backticks
or tildes as the opening code fence.  If the leading code fence is

> indented N spaces of indentation, then up to N spaces of indentation are removed

Reviewer 2: Remove "of indentation"?

from each line of the content (if present).  (If a content line is not
indented, it is preserved unchanged.  If it is indented N spaces or less, all
of the indentation is removed.)

> The closing code fence may be indented up to three spaces of indentation, and

Reviewer 2: Remove "of indentation"?

````````````````````````````````

> Closing fences may be indented by 0-3 spaces of indentation, and their

Reviewer 2: Remove "of indentation"?

condition], the block will contain just that line.

1.  **Start condition:**  line begins with the string `<script`,

> `<pre`, or `<style` (case-insensitive), followed by a space, a tab,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`<pre`, or `<style` (case-insensitive), followed by spaces or tabs,
```

Author: As this is about exactly one character, I’d say this is fine.

`nav`, `noframes`, `ol`, `optgroup`, `option`, `p`, `param`,
`section`, `source`, `summary`, `table`, `tbody`, `td`,
`tfoot`, `th`, `thead`, `title`, `tr`, `track`, `ul`, followed

> by a space, a tab, the end of the line, the string `>`, or

Reviewer: ```suggestion
by spaces or tabs, the end of the line, the string `>`, or
```

the string `/>`.\
**End condition:** line is followed by a [blank line].

7.  **Start condition:**  line begins with a complete [open tag]
(with any [tag name] other than `script`,
`style`, or `pre`) or a complete [closing tag],

> followed only by a space, a tab, or the end of the line.\

Reviewer: ```suggestion
followed only by spaces or tabs, or the end of the line.\
```

This is not a link reference definition, because there are

> characters other than tabs or spaces after the title:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
characters other than spaces or tabs after the title:
```

````````````````````````````````

> However, the first line may be indented at most three spaces of indentation,

Reviewer 2: remove "of indentation"?

## Block quotes

A [block quote marker](@)
consists of 0-3 spaces of indentation, plus (a) the character `>` together
with a following space of indentation, or (b) a single character `>` not

> followed by a space of indentation.

Reviewer 2: Here I'd remove "of indentation".  It's not clear that this space is really "indentation."

````````````````````````````````

> The space or tab after the `>` characters can be omitted:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The spaces or tabs after the `>` characters can be omitted:
```

When including an indented code block in a block quote,
remember that the [block quote marker] includes

> both the `>` and a following spaces of indentation.  So *five spaces* are needed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
both the `>` and a following space of indentation.  So *five spaces* are needed
```

It is tempting to think of this in terms of columns:  the continuation
blocks must be indented at least to the column of the first character other than

> a space or tab after the list marker.  However, that is not quite right.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a space or tab after the list marker. However, that is not quite right.
```

Author: Reason for this one is that the spec seems to mostly use two spaces!

````````````````````````````````

> Note that at least one spaces or tab is needed between the list marker and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that at least one space or tab is needed between the list marker and
```

If the *first* block in the list item is an indented code block,

> then by rule #2, the contents must be indented *one* spaces of indentation after

Reviewer: ```suggestion
then by rule #2, the contents must be indented *one* space of indentation after
```

    sequence of blocks *Bs*, not separated from each other by more than
    one blank line, and *M* is a list marker of width *W*,
    then the result of prepending *M* to the first line of *Ls*, and

>     indenting subsequent lines of *Ls* by *W + 1* spaces of indentation, is a

Reviewer 2: remove "of indentation"?

4.  **Indentation.**  If a sequence of lines *Ls* constitutes a list item
    according to rule #1, #2, or #3, then the result of indenting each line

>     of *Ls* by 1-3 spaces of indentation (the same for each line) also

Reviewer 2: Remove "of indentation"?

````````````````````````````````

Note, however, that list items may not be indented more than

> three spaces of indentation.  Here `- e` is treated as a paragraph continuation

Reviewer 2: Remove "of indentation"?

    it is part of a [left-flanking delimiter run]
    and either (a) not part of a [right-flanking delimiter run]
    or (b) part of a [right-flanking delimiter run]

>     preceded by Unicode punctuation.

Reviewer 2: hyperlink "Unicode punctuation"?

    it is part of a [right-flanking delimiter run]
    and either (a) not part of a [left-flanking delimiter run]
    or (b) part of a [left-flanking delimiter run]

>     followed by Unicode punctuation.

Reviewer 2: hyperlink?

A [link destination](@) consists of either

- a sequence of zero or more characters between an opening `<` and a
  closing `>` that contains no line endings or unescaped
  `<` or `>` characters, or

- a nonempty sequence of characters that does not start with `<`,
  does not include [ASCII control characters][ASCII control character]

>   or or [space] character, and includes parentheses only if (a) they are

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  or [space] character, and includes parentheses only if (a) they are
```

a [blank line].

An [inline link](@) consists of a [link text] followed immediately
by a left parenthesis `(`, optional spaces, tabs, and up to one line ending,
an optional [link destination], an optional [link title] separated from the link
destination by spaces, tabs, and up to one line ending, optional spaces, tabs,
and up to one line ending, and a right parenthesis `)`.

> The link's text consists of the inlines contained

Reviewer 2: Maybe use a bullet list here to avoid confusion?  At first I thought "an optional [link title] separated from the link  destination by spaces, tabs, and up to one line ending, optional spaces, tabs,  and up to one line ending," would allow up to two line endings...but they belong to separate clauses.

a [blank line].

An [inline link](@) consists of a [link text] followed immediately
by a left parenthesis `(`, optional spaces, tabs, and up to one line ending,
optional link information, and a right parenthesis `)`.
Link information consists of a [link destination], an optional [link title], and
optional spaces, tabs, and up to one line ending.
If a title is present, it must be separated from the link destination by spaces,

> tabs, and up to one line ending.

Author: @jgm How about this? It introduces “link information” as a term, which I hope fixes your [comments here](https://github.com/commonmark/commonmark-spec/pull/618#discussion_r339890394).

Introducing this term may also make it possible to use it in definitions, and images (although then the term may be better as “resource information”).

Term could be something different though!

Author: Nice!

````````````````````````````````

> Consecutive internal spaces, tabs, and line endings, is treated as one space for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Consecutive internal spaces, tabs, and line endings are treated as one space for
```

````````````````````````````````

> No spaces, tabs, or line endings, are allowed between the [link text] and the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
No spaces, tabs, or line endings are allowed between the [link text] and the
```

A [declaration](@) consists of the
string `<!`, a name consisting of one or more uppercase ASCII letters,

> a space, tab, or a line ending, a string of characters not including the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
spaces, tabs, and up to one line ending, a string of characters not including the
```
